# Edge-ML GloVe NLP

This high-speed, low-footprint NLP (Natural Language Processing) EDGE-ML (Edge Machine Learning) JavaScript library can be used to enhance and derive more info from 'TensorFlow.js' (TensorFlow JavaScript) classification predictions. This is accomplished by applying GloVe-based NLP (Natural Language Processing) on the classification labels. The most frequently associated words of the top labels are gathered, matched, ranked and sorted. This is essentially an ML charades expert that deduces what the unidentified object is by using the top labels as word clues.

GloVe (Global Vectors for Word Representation, https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/) is an unsupervised learning NLP algorithm for obtaining "word embedding" vector representations for words. Training is performed on aggregated global word-word co-occurrence statistics from a corpus, and the resulting representations showcase interesting linear substructures of the word vector space. In other words, GloVe observes that ratios of word-word co-occurrence probabilities have the potential for encoding some form of meaning. 

The data in this ML-Edge library is pre-computed using the 60,000 most frequently used pre-trained word vectors from "glove.6B.300d.txt", which is generated from Wikipedia 2014 wikis and English Gigaword 5th Edition newswire text from 1995 to 2010. The original consists of 6 billion tokens, has 400,000 uncased vocabulary, 300-dimension vectors and is 1 GB in size. Loading and such running massive sized models into a client-based web application would cause performance issues. TensorFlow suggests using a model that is of 30 MB in size or less in the browser. The NLP data in this ML-Edge library is customizable from 4-35 MB, depending on word-depth requirement from 10-100 of the most frequently used words of each vocabulary.
